Blog post about Posit Conf video submittions (#377)
rladies/rladies.github.io: content/blog/2025-02-03-submit_posit_conf/index.en.md

---

> title: "Tips for Submitting a Video Abstract to Posit Conf 2025"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Tips for Submitting a Video Abstract to Posit Conf"
```

should this be dated 2025 or more general?

Author: Let's do general actually so we can recycle

author: 
  - Nic Crane
  - Sayantika Banik
date: '2025-02-03'
---

> Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You're not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is—it's just **one minute** and all about showcasing your enthusiasm.

Author: ```suggestion
Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You're not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is—it's just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.
```

> Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You're not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is—it's just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thinking about submitting a talk for **Posit Conf 2025** but feeling nervous about recording a video abstract? You are not alone! It can feel intimidating at first, but the good news is it is just **one minute** and all about showcasing your idea effectively.
```

Author: (Added your suggestions to other PR)

## **Tips from the R-Ladies Global Team**

> We know that recording a video can feel like a challenge, so we asked members of **R-Ladies Global** to share their best advice:

Reviewer: do the tips have to be from the global team or can they be from the R-Ladies community more broadly?

Author: Good point, updated on other PR

> 📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting expected to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
📽️  **Shannon Pileggi**: Ask more than one person for feedback on your abstract and video content - everyone has a different and valuable point of view.Think about the way the principles of your content apply broadly to a general audience. [[Read Shannon's blog post talking about her experience of getting accepted to speak at Posit Conf here](https://www.pipinghotdata.com/posts/2024-10-24-iterating-to-achieve-my-first-accepted-positconf-talk/)]
```

Author: Oh god, that's ADHD brain stuff right there, thanks!

💡 **Nic Crane**: Check out the [Posit blog post which tells you what they're looking for](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) and has examples of past submissions.  Before recording, I try to get myself pumped up with energy by doing a dummy run pretending my idea is the most interesting thing I've heard in my entire life, with exaggerated enthusiasm, so then the normal version I do immediately afterwards has a bit of bounce to it.

📽  *[Placeholder for a tip from another R-Ladies member]*

🎤  *[Placeholder for a tip from another R-Ladies member]*

💡  *[Placeholder for a tip from another R-Ladies member]*

> 

Reviewer: Some great tips here: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rachaeldempsey_a-little-birdie-told-me-that-the-call-for-activity-7282863651554754563-Zy_I/

Author: Thanks so much!

## **What Tech Should You Use?**

*[Placeholder for Saya's content]*

## **How to Structure Your Video**

Here's a simple way to approach your **one-minute** video:

### **1. Start with the Basics**

Introduce yourself and your idea. Pull from the abstract of your talk and expand slightly to explain what your talk is about.

### **2. Share Why It Matters**

> Why is your idea important to you? Why does it excite you? People love to see genuine enthusiasm—it's contagious! Highlight why your topic could be interesting or helpful to the audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why is your idea important to you? Why does it excite you? People love to see genuine enthusiasm - it is contagious! Highlight why your topic could be interesting or helpful to the audience.
```

### **3. Keep It Conversational**

> Talk as if you're **explaining to a friend,** not reading from a script. Keep it engaging and natural.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Talk as if you are **explaining to a friend,** not reading from a script. Keep it engaging and natural.
```

### **4. Speak Clearly & With Energy**

Passion is contagious! **Slow down a bit,** use your voice expressively, and **have fun with it.**

### **5. Don't Worry About Perfection**

> Your video doesn't need to be flawless—just **authentic**. If selected, you'll get speaker training!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your video doesn't need to be flawless, just **authentic**. If selected, you will get speaker training!
```

### **6. Humor and Creativity are Welcome**

If your idea lends itself to something quirky or funny, don't shy away. Even if your topic seems niche, an engaging presentation can make it appealing to everyone.  But don't worry if you're not naturally funny either - this is only optional.

## **Tips for Success**

> * **Pep Talk Yourself:** Before recording, remind yourself that you're great at what you do. Boosting your confidence will help you project positivity and ease.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Pep Talk Yourself:** Before recording, remind yourself that you are great at what you do. Boosting your confidence will help you project positivity and ease.  
```

* **Keep It Simple:** Your video doesn't need to be polished or perfect. Focus on your enthusiasm and message.  
* **Check Out Examples:** Watch [other video abstracts](https://posit.co/blog/how-we-build-the-positconf-program/) for inspiration.

## **Need Feedback?**

> If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar and a Google Doc where a reviewer can put their comments), and a reviewer will take a look.

Author: ```suggestion
If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar and if you're submitting a video then also include a link to a Google Doc where a reviewer can put their comments), and a reviewer will take a look.
```

> If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar and if you're submitting a video then also include a link to a Google Doc where a reviewer can put their comments), and a reviewer will take a look.

Author: This is clunky.  Are we allowed to share reviewees email addresses with reviewers or does this fall foul of some data protection stuff?

If we can share the email address, we should just do that and then not worry about an additional doc to add comments to, and so remove that mention here.

Reviewer: asking both the reviewer and submitter for consent to share email in whatever intake forms you have could resolve this

> If you'd like input on your abstract or video, we're happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar and if you're submitting a video then also include a link to a Google Doc where a reviewer can put their comments), and a reviewer will take a look.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like input on your abstract or video, we are happy to help! Share a link to your draft (Google Drive or similar and if you're submitting a video then also include a link to a Google Doc where a reviewer can put their comments), and a reviewer will take a look.
```

yes, let's discuss this more. is the process for video review the same as abstract review? does it go to the same reviewer? either way, direct the user more specifically to where they should share or submit.

Reviewer: also one more thought here. what is the expectation to get feedback on your video submission? is it that you record it, submit it for review, and then record again? or that you live workshop talking points? or that you have talking points written down that you discuss?

Author: I think to ensure we're creating minimal commitment for reviewers, we should set the expectation record -> get review -> re-record, but now we're asking for permission to share email addresses, if reviewers want to offer extra feedback then they can choose to do so.

Reviewer: yeah that sounds fine to me. i would be explicit that the "draft" is an initial recording that they get feedback on.

> Although we encourage submitting at least 3 weeks from the final deadline, there is still a chance we'll be able to pair you up with a reviewer with a shorter timeline, so just do it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although we encourage submitting at least 3 weeks from the final deadline, there is still a chance we will be able to pair you up with a reviewer with a shorter timeline, so just do it.
```
